---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: 💵! - The Business of Open Source"
---

# Different Models
During our class discussion, I found it interesting to learn about  different ways a for-profit business can be profitable using open source software. The main ways that stood out to me were the ‘Red Hat’ services model and the ‘GitLab’ open-core model.

Red Hat distributes a free version of Linux; however, they are able to make money through offering services to users. They offer uptime support, technical assistance, and general IT help as an extra charge. GitLab is similar in that it offers a free core service and then charges for additional features, such as hosting and scaling.

# Industries Adapting FOSS
We watched a video about a Linux conference for the finance industry. It was odd to hear an industry that is so focused on profitability trying to place value on open source software. It almost made me laugh when they multiplied the number of lines of code by dollar value to try to get this estimate.

Ignoring the way they generalized the industry, I did appreciate that they are trying to adapt the open source model to be more efficient. They acknowledged that it is inefficient to have two proprietary companies build the exact base layer of software, and it is better to focus on their differentiation layer.

# Personal Opportunities
Entering the workforce in a few months here, and after working with various open source projects over the last few months in this class, it is cool to see the ways that I could contribute to open source projects while getting paid. Even if the company I work for doesn’t necessarily allot time for work on open source projects, it is still beneficial to contribute to some of these projects.
