---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Git and Project Evaluations"
---

## Git: In Class Exercises

The git exercise was interesting for two main reasons.

First, I learned how to better use the log command and the restore command. I am already familiar with Git, having used it in multiple classes and during my summer work; however, it is interesting to learn about Git best practices. The log command can be used with `git log --oneline` to print a one-line summary of all commits. Additionally, the restore command could be used restore from a specific commit: `git restore --source e5f6g7h foo.txt`.

Second, I learned how git objects are stored. I found it interesting that each file is stored as a compressed SHA hash that is entirely unique. Also, each commit stores the entire history, not just the deltas between the most recent commit.

## Project Evaluation

During the project evaluation presentations, I found it incredibly interesting how professional many of these projects seem on the outside, but when you look at their repos, it tells an entirely different story. For example, the Brave browser is a very well-known browser that has missing information on its website about contributions.

I am  most excited to have my first line of code be accepted onto an open source project. Being able to say that I contributed to a project I believe in would be so much fun for me.

My biggest challenge will be being able to find a project that I understand enough to be able to contribute to. A lot of code bases are incredibly advanced, and it can be hard to contribute to them without a very strong coding knowledge. I plan to overcome this by picking a project I am very familiar with. This will give me an advantage as I will have an intuitive understanding of how things work and what is wrong.



