---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Group Project Comments
---

## Group Work So Far
Our group started with 2 main tasks. First, we wanted to set clear rules and expectations before starting any project work. We discussed how often we plan to meet, when we plan to meet, and the consequences if we don't complete our work on time. We also discussed our goals and aspirations for what we wanted to accomplish during this project, so that we were all on the same page. Secondly, our group discussed different project types we might be interested in.

## How Did We Decide On A Project
Before meeting on Wednesday, we decided that everyone should come prepared with a few project ideas that we were interested in. Upon meeting on Wednesday, we all went around and talked about each of the projects that we were interested in. As each person presented their project, each of us would look through the evaluation on the Project Evaluation repo to learn more about it.

After each person presented, we narrowed down a few favorites; however, one specifically stood out the most. P5.js is a very beginner-friendly project that has an active, welcoming community. We all loved the lively community and what they are building.

We talked with the professor to ensure that our group could do it, and we wouldn't be competing with other groups. She spoke highly of the project and said it was run by educators, some of them even at NYU Tisch. We were all quite excited about this and knew that P5.js was definitely a project that all of us wanted. 

## Obstacles
We have not encountered any major obstacles so far. Our initial planning, setting our expectations and goals, helped make sure that we were all aligned on what we wanted to work on before starting. I am super excited to start contributing to this project!