---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Cathedral and the Bazaar"
---

# Central idea: Cathedral and the Bazaar
Eric Raymond’s essay describes the cathedral as a traditional, closed-source development, led by elite groups with infrequent, large public releases. He describes the bazaar as a method of development with decentralized, open source development. The bazaar, he argues, leads to faster development and higher quality of code.

# AI tools - bazaar still superior?
I believe that with AI tools, the bazaar method of development is more important than ever. AI tools allow more people than ever to take a look at open source projects and contribute their changes to it. Being able to release these changes more frequently allows their community to be able to test these rapid releases in smaller increments.

# PR Merged! 🎉
[colorMode() fix](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/pull/8683#event-24032904780)

I was able to address broken links leading to the colorMode() reference page.

I want to continue contributing to their website and fixing bugs on their. Web development has always been a passion of mine, and being able to contribute to it on such a large scale has been super rewarding. There are a lot of bugs in their translated pages as they are all handled in a separte way from english - this could be a great contriubtion.

# Other groups
It was interesting how many of the groups mentioned that they were struggling to get their PR’s merged into the code base. For example, the nanobot, pandas, affine, etc. all mentioned their struggles with getting the maintainer to accept their PR. P5.js maintainer [Kit](https://github.com/ksen0?tab=overview&from=2020-12-01&to=2020-12-31) is quite responsive, and I am very thankful for that.