---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of conduct"
---

Code of Conduct documents, such as the one in the Go Project, allow the open
source project to be able to maintain a safe community for development.
The documents describe the common-sense rules that encourage a welcoming community,
and also outline the actions the project would take if someone does not follow these rules.
Without having such a document, there would be no way punish those who are misusing the community.

Go’s code of conduct is based on Contributor Covenant’s code of conduct. However, a few differences exist between these two documents.
First, the Go Project has a specific about section outlining how this document benefits the Go project.
Second, in the conflict resolution section, there are the direct steps you should take, including Go email addresses.
The Contributor Covenant’s document is general and does not have any project-specific information.

Eclipse’s [Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), another document based
on Contributor Covenant’s code of conduct, has many differences from Go’s code of conduct.
Eclipse’s document differs in that it includes project-specific information in its code of conduct, provides different contact email addresses, and has its own pledge.
While these two documents are based on the same document, their amendments to it can make them different in many ways.

My favorite open source project, Swift, also has its [code of conduct](https://www.swift.org/code-of-conduct/) based on the same Contributor Covenant document.
Since it is based on the same original document, many similarities in the structure are apparent.
However, there are unique email addresses for handling problems, and a brief intro to why Swift should be inclusive.

Swift, Go, and Eclipse's code of conduct attempt to drive consensus and transparency in their respective communities.
The Linux Foundation's video talks about the specific approaches to create this consensus and transparency.
First, they talked about "Finding the North Star." Having an overarching goal is critical
for the community to work together toward something, or else it would create a sense of chaos.

Next, The Linux Foundation talked about the following points: communication is critical, inclusivity, and seeking consensus.
People will only want to work in a community where their voice is heard, they are being treated with respect, and everyone has an equal opportunity to get involved.
Similar to the atmospheres at school or work, creating a welcoming community is essential.

Lastly, handling issues proactively and effectively is another section the Linux Foundation mentions in its presentation.
Swift, Go, and Eclipse all have a very specific procedures for handling issues that arise.
The Foundation emphasised handling issues with "North Star" in mind. Referring back to what your goals are can help these
projects handle these unwanted issues.